# Codecademy Career Path [Data Scientist: Machine Learning](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/paths/data-science)
Projects completed as part of the course are collected here. Every project in the corresponding folder.

## Portfolio Projects
### Data Analysis
- [__portfolio-project-u.s.-medical-insurance__](portfolio-project-u.s.-medical-insurance/us-medical-insurance-costs.ipynb): The first project is showing understanding of Python syntax to sort and analyze data about U.S. medical insurance costs. The result of passing the Data Science Foundations part which includes learning Principles of Data Literacy, SQL and Python Fundamentals.
- [__portfolio-project-data-visualization__](portfolio-project-data-visualization/life_expectancy_gdp.ipynb): The second project is showing understanding of data visualization to analyze and plot data about GDP and life expectancy. The result of passing a segment of the Data Science Foundations II part which includes Python Pandas, Exploratory Data Analysis, Statistic Fundamentals and Data Visualization Fundamentals.
- [__data-science-foundations-portfolio-project__](data-science-foundations-portfolio-project/biodiversity.ipynb): The third project is showing knowledge of data analysis to interpret data about endangered animals for the National Park Service. The final project and result of the completed segment of the Data Science Foundations course.
### Machine Learning
- [__portfolio-project-ml-linear-regression__](portfolio-project-ml-linear-regression/tennis_ace_starting.ipynb): The first small project in ML part of the course shows knowledge of implementing linear regression from the Scikit-Learn library. The data has been given by Codecademy from the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) for analyzing and modeling.
- [__portfolio-project-ml-logistic-regression__](portfolio-project-ml-logistic-regression/transactions.ipynb): The second small project in ML part of the course shows knowledge of implementing logistic regression from the Scikit-Learn library. The data has been given by Codecademy. It is a small portion of [Synthetic Financial Datasets For Fraud Detection from kaggle.com](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ealaxi/paysim1).
- [__portfolio-project-ml-k-nearest-neighbors__](portfolio-project-ml-k-nearest-neighbors/breast_cancer.ipynb): The third small project in ML part of the course shows knowledge of implementing K nearest neighbors algorithm from the Scikit-Learn library. The data has been given by Codecademy from sklearn.datasets.
- [__portfolio-project-ml-decision-tree__](portfolio-project-ml-decision-tree/flags.ipynb): The fourth small project in ML part of the course shows knowledge of implementing Decision tree from the Scikit-Learn library. The data has been given by Codecademy from [archive.ics.uci.edu](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/flags/flag.data).
- [__portfolio-project-ml-hyperparameters-tunning-regularization__](portfolio-project-ml-hyperparameters-tunning-regularization/raising_dataset.ipynb): The fifth small project in ML part of the course shows knowledge of implementing Hyperparameter tunning technique and Lasso and Ridge regularization. The data has been given by Codecademy from [muratkoklu.com](https://www.muratkoklu.com/datasets/).
- [__portfolio-project-ml-k-means__](portfolio-project-ml-k-means/digits.ipynb): The sixth small project in ML part of the course shows knowledge of implementing K means from the Scikit-Learn library. The data has been given by Codecademy from sklearn.datasets.
- [__portfolio-project-ml-pca__](portfolio-project-ml-pca/classes.ipynb): The seventh small project in ML part of the course shows knowledge of implementing Principal Component Analysis from the Scikit-Learn library. The data has been given by Codecademy. The dataset was generated by a Monte Carlo program, Corsika, described in D. Heck et al., CORSIKA, A Monte Carlo code to simulate extensive air showers, Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe FZKA 6019 (1998)
- [__portfolio-project-ml-random-forest__](portfolio-project-ml-random-forest/census.ipynb): The eighth small project in ML part of the course shows knowledge of implementing Random forest from the Scikit-Learn library. The data has been given by Codecademy from UCI’s Machine Learning Repository.
